[[Pods]] is **the smallest execution unit in Kubernetes**.

[[replicaset]]  ensures that a predefined number of pods always run

[[deployments]] tells Kubernetes how to create or modify instances of the pods that hold a containerised application.

[[services]] is a method for exposing a network application that is running as one or more Pods in your cluster.

[[namespace]] provides a mechanism for isolating groups of object within a single cluster.

[[label]]  are key/value pairs that are attached to objects such as Pods

[[selectors]]  the client/user can identify a set of objects

[[taint]] and [[tolerations]] work together to ensure that pods are not scheduled onto inappropriate nodes

[[Node-affinity]] set of rules used by the scheduler to determine where a pod can be placed

[[request]] and [[limit]] The kubelet also reserves at least the _request_amount of that system resource specifically for that container to use. A [[container]] is not allowed to use more than its resource `limit`.

[[daemonset]] ensures that all (or some) Nodes run a copy of a Pod.

[[staticpods]]  are managed directly by the [[kubelet]] daemon on a specific node, without the [[kube-apiserver]] observing them

[[Schedulers]] is a control plane process which assigns Pods to Nodes. 

[[Metrics server]] is an aggregator of resource usage data in your cluster,

[[logs]] are generated by containers using stdout and stderr

[[rollback]] offer a simple mechanism to _roll back_ changes to resources such as Deployments, StatefulSets and DaemonSets.

[[commands]] and [[arguments]]  you can define a command and arguments for the containers that run in the Pod.

[[enviornment variables]] you can set environment variables for the containers that run in the Pod.

[[kubeadm]] is a tool used to build Kubernetes (K8s) clusters. _Kubeadm_ performs the actions necessary to get a minimum viable cluster up and running quickly

[[Backup and restore]] cluster configuration

[[Security]] It will only respond to requests that it can properly authenticate and authorize.

[[CertificateSigningRequest]] resource is used to request that a certificate be signed by a denoted signer.

[[KubeConfig]] is used to organize information about clusters, users, namespaces, and authentication mechanisms.

[[API Groups]] The _Kubernetes API_ is grouped into multiple such _groups_ based on their purpose.

[[kubectl proxy]] HTTP proxy service created by [[kubectl]] utility to access the [[kube-apiserver]].

[[NetworkPolicy]] are an application-centric construct which allow you to specify how a pod is allowed to communicate with various network "entities"  over the network.

[[CSI]] is a community-based project for developing a standardized API enabling communication between container orchestration (CO) platforms and storage plugins

[[Volumes]] 

[[PersistentVolume]] is part of the network storage within a cluster provided by the administrator.

[[PersistentVolumeClaim]] is a request for storage by a user. It is similar to a Pod. Pods consume node resources and PVCs consume PV resources. 