RBAC Authorization.md, before:


create Role using [[defination-file]]

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: pod-reader
rules:
- apiGroups: [""] # "" indicates the core API group
  resources: ["pods"]
  verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
```

create Role Binding using [[defination-file]]

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
# This role binding allows "jane" to read pods in the "default" namespace.
# You need to already have a Role named "pod-reader" in that namespace.
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: read-pods
  namespace: default
subjects:
# You can specify more than one "subject"
- kind: User
  name: jane # "name" is case sensitive
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  # "roleRef" specifies the binding to a Role / ClusterRole
  kind: Role #this must be Role or ClusterRole
  name: pod-reader # this must match the name of the Role or ClusterRole you wish to bind to
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```


check if a user has run a perticular command ex . 
```
kubectl auth can-i create deployments
```

Admin user can check if some other user can run a perticular command
```
kubectl auth can-i create deployments --as dev-user
```

can also specify the namespace
```
kubectl auth can-i create deployments --as dev-user --namespace test
```

Commit message:

cluster role and cluster role binding

RBAC Authorization.md, after:


create [[Role]] using [[defination-file]]

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: pod-reader
rules:
- apiGroups: [""] # "" indicates the core API group
  resources: ["pods"]
  verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
```

create [[Role Binding]] using [[defination-file]]

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
# This role binding allows "jane" to read pods in the "default" namespace.
# You need to already have a Role named "pod-reader" in that namespace.
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: read-pods
  namespace: default
subjects:
# You can specify more than one "subject"
- kind: User
  name: jane # "name" is case sensitive
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  # "roleRef" specifies the binding to a Role / ClusterRole
  kind: Role #this must be Role or ClusterRole
  name: pod-reader # this must match the name of the Role or ClusterRole you wish to bind to
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```


check if a user has run a perticular command ex . 
```
kubectl auth can-i create deployments
```

Admin user can check if some other user can run a perticular command
```
kubectl auth can-i create deployments --as dev-user
```

can also specify the namespace
```
kubectl auth can-i create deployments --as dev-user --namespace test
```


[[Cluster Role]] and [[Cluster Role Binding]]

- They are very similar to [[Role]] and [[Role Binding]] except that roles are spicific to a [[namespace]] where as the [[Cluster Role]] and [[Cluster Role Binding]] are irrespective of a tenant.
